Well come back in this lesson we're going to see what we can do what attributes we're going to manipulate
attributes of an element using javascript.
So earlier we saw how we can add styles we can toggle classes we can update the inner text.
So it is a lot of options that are open to us and as well.
Attributes are open to us as well.
So let's create Let's grab that element.
So we're just use again and this time to document a document and we'll get element by ID.
Actually no we can't do element by ID or maybe we will get we'll change this one too id so get element
by id and will grab a message.
So just to keep things simple or use get element by ID.
So let's go back out to the page and to refresh the page.
So we know with elements we've got a lot of information that we can contain we can add attributes we
can set various attributes and so on.
So let's first of all let's set an attribute.
And we know with him out elements the idea is an attribute.
We can also add additional attributes if we need to we can add custom attributes as well.
So if for instance we want to apply multiple styles we saw earlier that if we grab the element and if
we do style and we add in color and then we could set the color to be red that when we go into the element
itself and we do go over to the inspector that we've added this style color red.
So what actually happens if I want to add in more than one style to it.
So this is where I can use set attribute instead.
So we know that we've set this attribute and we've by default at odds and the style attribute.
So we can also use E-L and we can use the method and it's called Set attribute
and then within set attribute.
Basically what it's going to do is it allows us to first specify the attribute that we want to set.
So I want a set style and I want to set the value of style so I can do things like I can have in that
color red and we can have multiple properties so I can do padding.
And this is just typical Just as we would when we were tight typing it is an inline attribute so we
can add some padding.
I can also do border and one pick solid block so we can add any number of values within here.
And then when I execute this we go back to the element and we see that we've added in the style attribute.
So we've updated and we've added in the style attribute dynamically via javascript.
So another thing that we can do is we can remove attributes.
So now we can go back here and we can do elements and instead of setting attribute let's remove an attribute.
So this method is called remove attribute.
And then within here we need to specify what we want to remove.
So if we want to remove our style we could do it this way.
And we see that what happens now is we removed that entire style attribute so it didn't matter that
we added in all of these values into the style attribute.
We can simply remove it back by just doing the remove attribute.
So there's a lot of power in this.
And you can also save yourself quite a bit of time as well.
So in this exercise what I want to do is I want to build a table from an array.
So we're going to use a list of names.
So this is that same list of names that we used earlier.
And of course you can use your own list of names.
So basically we've got the eight names here or nine names.
And I want to build out an array.
So basically I want to have a table and have all of the names here on the left hand side and then we
want to apply some attributes to those as well.
So to those elements and then we want to make those clickable and find the information that's contained
within that cell.
So this challenge is to build out a table from the information contained within this array and make
it a three column table and it will have the nine rows each row containing a different name and then
having the two columns and just leave those columns blank for now and do all of this via javascript
and you can add in a brand new element here so we can call it div and ID and output so you can just
deposit that table within the output element.
So go ahead.
Open up your editor paused the video and build out a table using the information contained within the
array and do this all via javascript.
And I'll show you how to do that coming up.
So the challenge was to build a table so I can use the window on load.
So to have a little bit of variety because we were doing that for the other one within the body.
So this time let's do a window on load and whenever the window loads then we want to fire off a function
that's going to be held in build.
So remember again not the rounded brackets because otherwise that will fire off the function and we
just want to fire off once the onload is complete.
So this is the same thing as doing an anonymous function and having the content within here.
So next we've got to add in our function that gets fired off whenever the window object loads.
So we need to build out a table.
So let's start with the variable h t M-L and we're going to start with a heading there.
So H-1 my friends table so this will have all of these friends that are going to be contained within
the table and we're going to open up the table element.
So that's all we need to do there.
And then next we know we need to loop through the length of the array.
So this one is what we've done multiple times before where we set the value and we loop through while
X is less than the length of my array.
So that in 2 there and increment X so that we can complete our loop and the next thing that we want
to do is we want to actually build out the table.
So let's update each to MLS update and concatenate each two together.
And this will allow us to build our table so we know that tables start with a table roll and then each
row as a table cell there and then contained within.
Here is where I actually want to output the value of my array.
X so that will be that person's name.
And then we can close that sell off and then we also want to add a few additional cells.
So for now we can keep them blank and just close those off.
And again do another one and close that one off and then once we're completed we can close off the road
as well.
So basically that's her HMO.
And it will loop through the length there and once we've completed it then we can actually output it
to our document to document get element by ID.
And we're going to just put it into output and that's the inner.
And make sure you use age to e-mail because this is h t m l.
So let's see how this looks.
And there's one actually one of the thing that I need to add in here is I need it to close off the table
so I can add in another value here so maybe this looks a little bit neater where I just simply and the
table and so that way my aged him is complete.
So let's go back and refresh it.
And there we go.
So what a thing.
I do want to add in is into the styling because I like to be able to see my table rows.
So let's add some styling and
we're just going to do it here with him.
SS So do border one pick solid and what do its lighter color.
Kind of an off off color there.
So it's very light border.
And also let's add in some padding because usually it's always good to have a little bit of padding
around the soles.
Let's try that out.
So there we go.
So now we've got our table.
We've got the three columns all built dynamically via javascript.
So the next thing that I want to do is I want to add a clickable cell within here so I can add in the
class here and I'm going to just say that I'm going to call it a box.
And then within here the value that I want to contain is I want the value of x.
So let's concatenate the value of x in here so that we've got some type of value that's contained within
here.
So let's save that gwo and refresh the page.
So now we've got our list the numbers and I'm actually going to add one to those so that we're not starting
out with the value of zero.
So usually that just doesn't look good because a lot of people that aren't working with arrays don't
really see that why they should start with zero.
So that's why we like to start it with one.
So we've listed all nine people.
So what I want you to do now is make these cells clickable.
So these ones that have the class box and make them clickable and I'll give you a hint as well.
So make sure that we're applying this after we've actually built code that I would put and we've set
the enraged him out of output and then we can loop through output and grab the appropriate classes using
Querrey selector all and then we can add that on click event for those events and what we're going to
do is we're going to add some attributes and we're going to pass some attributes into them.
So go ahead and add those as clickable elements and I'll show you how to do that.
So we know that we've set this up and now we've got we've built out our table.
So let's make those clickable and we're going to do this all via javascript.
So this is going to be well.
So we're going to use E-L for this particular list.
And so this is going to be the E-L box and we're make it a local variable within our function.
So what I want to do is use document because now that we've got all of that content in the document
object where you use Querrey selector and query select selector all.
So you can grab all of those appropriate elements and let us use the hash.
So this one is all sitting with an output.
So just in case by chance if we're selecting elements that are outside of output we don't want to select
any of those.
So let's add an output and then we want it followed by any ones that have the class box.
So basically that builds our list.
And now we can loop through there and we can add an event listener.
So let's add the on click here.
So we'll just do our loop.
So we need to once again loop through all of the values contained within that array and we're going
to loop through it while x is less than the length of L box
x Well X is less than the length of L box and then we're going to increment X by 1 and then now let's
add our event listeners.
And the reason that we're doing it within this order is that we need to build out our table first and
then we have access to that table content.
So let's create those event listeners.
So as we loop through L box we're going to add the on click event.
So it's on click
and when it gets clicked then what we want to do is we want to run and function.
So this is anonymous function as well.
And we want something to happen.
So what we want to do is we want to get its attribute value.
So let's update that.
And so we'll pick out the current element that was clicked and in order to get the attribute value I
want to add in an attribute value here.
So I'm going to call it data roll.
So basically this is what what's going to be contained within here is this is going to be the value
of the roll that just got clicked.
So it's going to be just a value of x so we don't have to do plus one.
So that we know what the index value is from the array.
And basically then we can pull back the value that's associated with it using their revalue.
So let's use this and we're going to use the method get attribute and the attribute that we're picking
up is called data roll.
And what we're going to do for now is we're going to output this in the console.
So basically and so that would give us the ability to work with it later on.
So let's go back out and make sure that everything is working properly.
So now when we click on them we actually get the index value of that item and we can actually take this
one step further.
So typically what I want to do is I don't like adding in these data attributes to the particular to
these table cells.
I usually like to add it into the role because all of this information is pertaining to the role.
And at some point we might need to access it.
So what I want you to do now is to determine what the data role.
So what the attribute is of the table role.
So traverse to it starting out at this you know that you're starting out at the element that got clicked
and navigate and get the value of data roll.
So try it out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So you can use this.
And we saw earlier that we've got parent element so we can get the attribute of the parent element so
go back and refresh it and now even though that attributes is sitting in the parent.
So if we go to inspect it you can see that that attribute is not sitting in the role it's sitting in
the table cell it's sitting in the role.
So we're able to actually access the content of the parent and that's the best place for it to be because
this actually gives us the ability to pull it out on any one of these table these tea table cells and
pull out that information and get that index value and then we can make use of that.
So let's do one more thing here where we're going to set a variable so we're just going to set a basic
MT variable and then I get to use that over here and I'm going to equal it to whatever the value of
this is.
And then next what I want to do is output the corresponding my array item that's going to score spawn
to it.
And now that we've got a table roll we can actually pull back information that's contained from the
array.
So we know which association it is and where it's associated.
So there's actually something else that I want to show you before we close off this lesson and let's
say for instance you don't actually know the parent element.
So I got a copy of it and you don't really know exactly where data row is.
You might have a few elements it might be a few elements in deep.
So you want to find actually the closest value of data to the current element.
So we can do it within this type of format as well where we can do this and we can use the method called
closest and what closest we'll do is it will actually find and return the correct value.
So depending on what value we're looking for we can take a look and we can see where data row is actually
located.
And with this we're looking for actually an object here so we need to square bracket it.
So because we might have more than one data row so we want to make sure that we're isolating out just
that value that attribute that we're looking at and whatever attribute is being held as data roll.
So now we see that it's still functioning its function the same way we're using the closest method.
So what I want you to do now to finish off this lesson is once we've made our selection update the message
here to reflect which one we've selected which row that we've selected and also the name coming from
the array.
John Roll a 3 Larry little roll for and so on.
So go ahead and add that in and I'll show you the solution coming up as well.
So a solution for this.
All we need to do.
We've already got all of that information that we're getting from the data row and we're passing it
and we've got access to all of this information.
So now it's as simple as outputting it with in the message area so we can do this in a number of ways.
So typically what we do is we set up a message and we get to document get element by ID.
So we've already set that up and we've got the message all ready to go.
And I'm going to actually update this two message.
So now within message instead of a console logging it out we're going to update our inner h t M-L and
we're going to output those values there now so we know we can get that username and we can say is on
roll number.
And then here we can just simply get the value that we're returning back from our data attribute.
So go ahead refreshed.
And now when we click on it a message is just here upon the top.
So as we click on it we see that jawin Larry is on row 3 and so on.
So it is all updating properly.